ENG

İşte GitHub deponda (örneğin oluşturduğumuz sap-basis-infrastructure klasörünün içindeki dokümanlarda veya doğrudan rehber olarak) kullanabileceğin, tamamen profesyonel ve teknik bir dille yapılmış İngilizce çevirisi:

Phase 1: Docker Desktop Installation & Resource Allocation
SAP systems are enterprise-grade, resource-heavy environments. Even the developer editions consume significant system overhead. If we do not allocate sufficient infrastructure resources to Docker after installation, the SAP server instance will encounter memory starvation and freeze during the bootstrap/initialization phase.

1. Download and Install Docker Desktop (10-15 mins)
Download the latest stable release of Docker Desktop corresponding to your operating system (Windows/Mac/Linux) from the official Docker website. If you are operating on a Windows environment, ensure that the WSL 2 (Windows Subsystem for Linux) backend option is checked during the installation wizard. Once the installation is complete, perform a system reboot.

2. Configure Hardware Resource Allocations (5 mins)
Launch Docker Desktop. Navigate to the top-right corner and click Settings (Gear Icon) > Resources. To guarantee the stability of the SAP image execution, allocate a minimum of 4 vCPUs (processor cores) and at least 8 GB of RAM (12-16 GB of RAM is highly recommended for optimal performance). Save the configurations and restart Docker Desktop.

3. Verify the Environment Setup (2 mins)
Open your terminal (PowerShell, Command Prompt, or Mac Terminal) and execute the following CLI command to verify that the Docker daemon is up and running successfully:

Bash
docker --version
Phase 2: Pulling the SAP Developer Edition Image
With the Docker containerization platform fully prepared, we can now proceed to pull the official/community developer image of the SAP application server onto our local machine.

Open your terminal and execute the following command:

Bash
docker pull rmorser/sap-abap-nw752-sp04
(Note: While official SAP image naming conventions may vary over time, the NetWeaver 7.52 SP04 release remains one of the most stable and lightweight options adopted by the community for local deployments.)

📊 Basis Administrator Note: This download process can take a significant amount of time depending on your network bandwidth, as the compressed image size spans approximately 15-20 GB. You may proceed to the next phase while the download runs in the background.

Phase 3: SAP GUI Installation
While our application server image is downloading in the background, we need to install the frontend client, SAP GUI (Graphical User Interface), which will enable us to establish a graphical connection to the remote or local SAP system.

For Windows Users: SAP GUI for Windows (The current stable release is typically version 8.00 or higher).

For macOS / Linux Users: SAP GUI for Java.

⚠️ Distribution Note: Standard enterprise editions of SAP GUI require official corporate licensing. However, for non-production educational use cases, you can access community-packaged "Developer SAP GUI" distributions shared across SAP Community blogs, open-source GitHub repositories, or authorized training platforms.


TR
Aşama 1: Docker Desktop Kurulumu & Kaynak Ayarları
SAP sistemleri kurumsal ve ağır sistemlerdir. Geliştirici sürümü bile olsa arka planda ciddi bir kaynak tüketir. Docker'ı kurduktan sonra ona yeterli gücü vermezsek SAP sunucusu ayağa kalkarken kilitlenir.
1.Docker Desktop İndir ve Kur:10-15 dk.
Docker'ın resmi web sitesinden işletim sistemine uygun (Windows/Mac/Linux) güncel sürümü indirip kur. Windows kullanıyorsan kurulum sırasında WSL 2 (Windows Subsystem for Linux) seçeneğinin işaretli olduğundan emin ol. Kurulum bitince bilgisayarı yeniden başlat.
2.Donanım Kaynaklarını Ayarla:5 dk.
Docker Desktop'ı aç. Sağ üstteki Settings (Çark simgesi) > Resources bölümüne git. SAP imajının sağlıklı çalışabilmesi için Docker'a en az 4 vCPU (işlemci çekirdeği) ve en az 8 GB RAM (ideali 12-16 GB RAM'dir) tahsis et. Ayarları kaydedip Docker'ı yeniden başlat.
3.Kurulumu Doğrula:2 dk.
Terminalini (Powershell, Komut İstemi veya Mac Terminal) aç ve şu komutu yazarak Docker'ın sorunsuz çalıştığını teyit et:
docker --version
Aşama 2: SAP Developer Edition İmajını Çekmek (Pull)
Docker hazır olduğuna göre, SAP'nin resmi olarak sunduğu güncel geliştirici imajını bilgisayarımıza indireceğiz.
Terminalini aç ve şu komutu çalıştır:
Bash
docker pull rmorser/sap-abap-nw752-sp04
(Not: SAP'nin resmi imaj adlandırmaları dönemsel olarak değişebilir, ancak topluluk tarafından en kararlı kabul edilen ve kaynakları nispeten daha az tüketen sürüm NetWeaver 7.52 SP04 sürümüdür.)
Basis Notu: Bu indirme işlemi internet hızına bağlı olarak uzun sürebilir (yaklaşık 15-20 GB veri indirilecektir). İndirme devam ederken bir sonraki adıma geçebilirsin.
Aşama 3: SAP GUI Kurulumu
Sunucumuz arka planda inerken, o sunucuya grafiksel olarak bağlanmamızı sağlayacak istemciyi (client) yani SAP GUI'yi kurmalıyız.
•	Windows Kullanıcıları İçin: SAP GUI for Windows (Güncel sürüm genellikle 8.00 veya üzeridir).
•	macOS / Linux Kullanıcıları İçin: SAP GUI for Java.
⚠️ Nereden İndirilir? Kurumsal SAP GUI lisans gerektirir ancak öğrenme amaçlı olarak SAP Community bloglarında, GitHub üzerindeki geliştirici repolarında veya yasal eğitim platformlarında paylaşılan "Geliştirici SAP GUI" linklerini kullanabilirsin.
